So, as we talk through this deal, I I we
did get a request for a good
old-fashioned antitrust argument.
>> It's been a while.
>> I want to put a pin in the regulatory
angle at the top and focus first on the
Netflix side. It's funny because you
mentioned the Netflix Warner Brothers
possibility
like maybe six weeks ago in a daily
update and when I was reading that daily
update, my honest reaction at the time
was, man, I'm surprised Ben is even
dignifying these rumors because Netflix,
I mean, they've become known for their
restraint and fiscal discipline over the
last couple years. And Warner Brothers
has been sold four times since 2001. And
it just seemed like a crazy idea.
>> You could rank all the acquisitions by
how much of a disaster they were.
>> Exactly. [laughter] So like Netflix
going that direction seemed
inconceivable, but here we are. So
question number one for you. What have
we learned about Netflix and its
position in the market over the last
week? What do you take away from their
interest here? I have bad news for you,
Andrew, because I think the biggest
takeaway cuts right back to where we're
going to have the biggest point of
contention on this podcast.
>> My biggest takeaway from this is that
Netflix is scared shitless by YouTube.
>> Yeah.
>> That like the the there is a
they can feel their share. you I think
you could go back a number of you know
Netflix is inexorably growing as a share
of TV and you know this is one of those
things I should probably go back and
cite all these but I've read every
Netflix investor letter and their
comments to the media Netflix's investor
calls are hilarious by the way so they
they used to have like interviews where
one analyst was allowed to go on and ask
them at the earnings call and like ask
questions as like a standin for everyone
now they have like uh They do have a
group of analysts, but it's all like
like they're they're very controlling
about this whole process that has always
been sort of interesting to me. But but
there was just sort of this ongoing
sense they include charts of their their
increasing share of TV. And part of that
was to show how well they're doing, but
also part of it was to show how much
potential they still had. you know like
we're just a single digit share and it's
like it's 3% then it's 4% 5% then it's
6%. Uh the problem with those charts is
there is another entity that is growing
faster than them surpassed them two
years ago
>> and that is YouTube and YouTube is so
it's not just that you have uh uh and
I'm talking specifically about share of
TV like not this isn't mobile YouTube is
actually far far larger we're talking
about TV specifically the thing on your
wall
>> total minutes watched on TV YouTube now
beats Netflix consistently So, it's not
just that there is another entity that
is doing better at the graphic that
Netflix was so so proud of for so long.
>> That entity has a fundamental structural
advantage, which is they get their
content for free. Um,
>> and it's unlimited content that they're
able to serve. Sure.
>> That's right. And it's it's totally
personalized. Like Netflix can talk
about, oh, we have data and then we can
personalize your feel like you want true
personalization. That's sort of what
YouTube is. Mhm.
>> And I, you know, look, I could monologue
for a while here, so feel free to jump
in. [laughter]
>> No, I'm enjoying it.
>> Well, I I think what this there's just a
what I've enjoyed about this deal for me
personally, and this actually I owe
Michael Nathansson for it because I
think I kind of this crystallized for me
while we were talking
>> and then I put it in my article then and
then uh didn't post the interview the
next day. So, sorry, Michael. Um
[laughter]
I
>> sorry Michael and thank you Michael. I
love any interview you do with Michael
Nathansson. Always a great podcast.
>> Netflix is always like a core piece of
it. So like we we had to do this revisit
the same Netflix argument that you've
been having with Michael Nathansson for
like seven years. So it's interesting to
sort of chart the progress of the takes
over time. Um I enjoy that you kick
things off that way. I will just note
before you finish, um, I did the
Takeability rankings with tech companies
last month and had a bunch of fun.
Netflix was low on that list and they
were low on your side.
>> Well, a little bit because look, I in my
mind you thought theyated from the take
game.
>> The game is over. There are lots of
arguments about Netflix going back to
your conversations with Michael
Nathansson and they won was the way I
saw it a month ago and the fact that
they are interested in this deal. I I
find myself wondering, is this a great
opportunity where they can press their
advantage, or are they panicked about
some of the failures they've had
developing original content of their
own, the ongoing costs, licensing, the
unwillingness of others in Hollywood to
license content, and of course, the
threat to Google. I've come away from
the last week wondering whether they
were way more vulnerable than anyone
realized. Well, I don't know. I don't
know that I put it as vulnerable, but
but just sort of zooming out. Let me get
let me get to the my my sort of insight
that I think I came up with because you
you there is this broad
this is a a story as old as the
internet,
>> which is the threat to professional
media from sort of the masses like me,
right? Like and I I know I think like
people now would like consider me like a
professional media creator
>> or whatever it might be, but I'm still a
guy on a WordPress blog at the end of a
day, right? Like I I did I did I didn't
need
>> You haven't changed our understanding of
what constitutes media has changed over
the last 10 or 15 years.
>> For sure. For sure. A and I think the,
you know, there's just this this aspect
of
these were gatekeepers in both a
positive and a negative sense. Like if
you wanted to write something that
people read, you had to get into the
newspaper because how were people going
to act like what were you going to do?
Like print it out like like a crazy
person on a street corner start passing
out pamphlets like like you needed to
actually get the content into people's
hands so they could read it. And
newspapers were the way that you did
that. And you could do letters to the
editor. That's how I started writing
letters to the editor in college. Uh
[laughter] got so
>> I wrote an angry letter to the Boston
College student paper and they ended up
publishing it and I was officially a
published author.
>> That's right. Um so yeah, I mean I love
it. Uh the and so
there there's you know the internet made
that different. anyone can publish and
you know one of my I actually think the
best one of the my better articulations
of aggregation theory was actually in
2014 and I didn't number one it speaks
to the power branding uh yeah I think I
think I've referenced this like economic
power in the age of abundance is like
the name of the title not so catchy uh
didn't didn't really stick but it was
about this I think I put in there I put
a couple of
or graphs or drawings that's like look I
have readers in like at that time I
think was like 150 countries. Now I
think I might I don't know if I have
North Korea yet but like for I haven't
looked for a while but
>> I have readers in literally every
country in the world or basically every
country in the world. I shouldn't you
know screw up my language.
>> Let's call it half. Yeah. I have subs
subscribers everywhere like the
>> and I am for those anyone who reads me
every minute spent reading me is a
minute not spent reading something else.
>> Yeah.
>> And that something else could be other
bloggers. It could be Twitter. It could
be the New York Times. It could be your
your local newspaper. And the this
speaks to the point that there is the
only plane of competition left is time
and attention
>> and and so you're you're that like I am
not the New York Times. They are a
publicly listed company. They make a lot
of money. They're again I've I've raved
endlessly about how they've handled the
transition, you know, especially over
the last 10 years. Just just from a
business perspective, setting aside, you
know, all the like editorial just really
brilliantly. They've also sort of
cleaned up the entire space because
everyone just subscribes to them first.
So their success is very much at the
cost of a lot of other newspapers
>> including the Washington Post for
example. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Like like like no one holds them
responsible for everyone else getting
decimated and they are one of the chief
entities that ought to be held
responsible. Um but but the this is just
the the the plane of competition is
shifting and this is a core problem.
Again, I'm talking about newspapers, but
this sort of matters everywhere and it
certainly matters in media. YouTube is
absolutely a competitor for Netflix and
I'm willing to go to the mat fighting
with you about this point.
>> So, in that context, what do you do?
Because YouTube owns that supply. You
you you now Netflix is doing these deals
with Spotify. you this is how you opened
your piece which you know I want you to
sort of articulate your thesis in a
little bit but with some of the like
ringer content for example and you know
which is it's like on is it content is
it [laughter] whatever yeah
>> like I don't really know what that
>> if you create video content like uh you
do it on YouTube like that's where the
audience is if you want to get any sort
of growth if you want to have any sort
of breakthrough and they monetize you
like like one of the brilliant parts of
YouTube is how from the very beginning
they have helped creators monetize and
it's it is actually a beautiful
manifestation of Google's like uh what's
the word uh enlightened selflessness
like like where they've shared a lot of
revenue with creators all along and does
that mean their their revenue is
actually zero marginal cost content yes
I think it does because that revenue is
>> because there's inventory so it like
it's matched but setting it aside
They own that space. They own that space
more than Netflix could ever dream of
owning Hollywood content, even if this
deal goes through.
So, what do you do?
I And what I think's been revealed over
the last, I would say, 10 years or so is
what distinguishes
professional content at its best is it's
a little bit more like music than I ever
appreciated. Hm.
>> So, I wrote an article differentiating
between different types of media and why
different industries played out
differently with these internet
dynamics. And I did like print and I did
TV and movies. They might have been
together. I can't remember. And I did
music. And what and the thing about
music was I was pretty early on that
actually the labels are doing all things
considered doing pretty good. They are
the poster child for the internet
ruining their business model. Napster
comes along all that sort of thing. uh
you know and but why and the reason is
because with music yes of course new
releases matter Spotify's ability to
create hits or you know make people
aware of new things is very powerful and
useful and they're making real money
sort of selling the access to sort of
help that happen
>> but at the end of the day
>> I get my Spotify
>> ung smalls and Tupac and all sorts of
music we did listen this year and it's
'90s alternative. That's what I listen
to, right? [laughter] Like the uh and
like the you listen to the same songs
>> again and again and again and again and
again and again and again and again and
as you get older it gets worse. Uh you
and the and the the thing about music is
once you create once a song is published
it's part of the library. And so there's
a bit where the the the power of the
labels it's not perfect. It's not
absolute. Spotify has real power, but
their power is more cemented and
permanent than you might think because
of the control they have of libraries.
>> Yeah,
>> you go that actually there are some
shows that are like that on TV. You have
your friends here. You have The Office.
You have Seinfeld. You have these. And
it's really interesting how a lot of
these sort of shows don't get made
anymore,
>> but these are shows that you come back
to as comfort food sort of again and
again. They're content that people
enjoy. Like there's a bit where they
don't I don't
>> I would like to be a music person and be
into the new bands and I just don't have
the time and mental energy [laughter] to
do that.
>> Neither do I. which I think signifies
we're officially old. It's like
but the great thing look like just
leaning into how washed we are
>> gives us sort of real expertise in this
area, right? And I think I'm not a like
I'm famously not a TV watcher, right? I
I'm a big TV watcher, but if it's sports
like I I I will watch sort of any sort
of sports content. But I can recognize
and appreciate just having friends on in
the background. Maybe you're watching,
maybe you're not, is pretty great. And
that's distinct from I'm going to watch
this new show and I'm going to lean
forward and I'm going to lock in and
sort of see what's happening versus a
oh, I'm watching the show and I'm also
scrolling on my phone and or I'm making
dinner or sort of what, you know,
whatever it might be or someone calls me
and it's fine. I can pause it or I can
not pause it because I've seen the show
like 57 times. my we went to Canada
fishing this this uh this summer on the
drive back me and my buddy who used to
watch every episode of Seinfeld on
Thursdays in high school
>> Mhm.
>> put on like season 7 which I think was
the alltime great season and just plowed
through like 15 episodes on like this 12
hour. It was awesome. It was so great.
[laughter] Right. And like guess what? I
was an attentive driver on the road cuz
I didn't need to pay close attention
because I've seen all these episodes,
but it was also so delightful and we
were actually like then recalling like
in high school like certain things that
that that was like tied to this. It was
like a
>> Were you a Seinfeld guy or a Simpsons
guy growing up
>> Seinfeld? I was afeld guy.
>> I look we were destined to podcast
together. I was [laughter] a Seinfeld
fan as well. I listened to an interview
with Julia Louie Drifus earlier this
week and as I was listening to the
interview I found myself thinking you
know what I need to revisit Seinfeld
because I have very fond memories of
growing up watching Seinfeld. It was
syndicated when I was growing up so I
would watch it every day at 5:30 and
that's the sort of content they're not
buying Seinfeld but that's the sort of
content that Netflix is acquiring if
this deal goes through with Warner
Brothers. And this is where I come back
to the struggles that Netflix has had
with their own original efforts because
they've been unable to develop the sort
of comfort food that people come back to
over and over again on the Netflix
platform. So it's actually you you
talked about sort of the flattening of
TV and and and like overall like what
what happened? Why why can't they do
this? Well, I would say that the
everything is now more disposable than
it was 25 years ago when there were more
traditional distribution mechanisms. You
would watch Seinfeld on TV every
Thursday, for instance. And now there's
just this river of content that
overwhelms everything. Basically, as
soon as I watch stuff, I forget it. And
then there's something new on and
>> and then you try to convince me to watch
more TV. It's ridiculous. [laughter]
>> Yeah. Well, it's enjoyable. Look, we're
all just waiting to die here trying to
fill the time. [laughter] So, but
>> what do you put it that way?
>> I enjoy myself watching TV, but I feel
like it's been rendered less meaningful
than it once was. And particularly with
movies, I actually cited an email that
Stephen sent us. the market for
mid-budget movies has been more or less
destroyed. So, my article about Netflix
this week started with the irony that
the Rewatchables podcast as part of that
Spotify deal will be exclusive to
Netflix beginning in January. And
Netflix and the emergence of Netflix did
more to kill the rewatchable movie than
any entity on Earth. And the e ecosystem
in Hollywood looks completely different
than it did even 10 or 15 years ago. And
what that creates is this new
environment like Netflix needs to serve
content to keep people engaged. And it
actually makes sense to go back to a
studio that has been making hits for 75
years and particularly has a lot of hits
from 25 years ago that may help keep
people engaged. Like I I understand the
logic of this move from that
perspective. I do find myself wondering
whether it is in fact any sort of
insulation from the disruption threat
that YouTube poses with a neverending
avalanche of user generated content that
has happens to be pretty popular. I
don't watch YouTube on my TV, but
clearly lots of people do. I'm not sure
how much Warner Brothers content
actually moves the needle as they try to
fend off that threat. Well, the thing
this is sort of the contrast the thing
with YouTube and and I'm more familiar
with this from the creator side just
because I I've talked to creators and
you know John Johnny who is a part of
this bundle Asian is sort of amazing and
I feel bad for him sometimes because
every YouTube creator you talk to and I
I I've heard similar things from like
MKBHD and I I've talked to a fair number
of other ones sort of off the record
the overwhelming inescapable sense that
you are on a hamster wheel and you just
have to keep going is like kind of
terrifying and like I guess I get a
little bit of a sense of that on
strategy because I publish every day and
I feel bad when I'm you know when I miss
uh I feel guilt vaguely guilty about
taking vacations. Don't don't email me.
I know it's unhealthy. It's just the way
I'm [laughter] wired. Okay, relax. Well,
you got people like Jean out there on a
Friday night in the ice cream shop at
the ice cream shop. Geez, terrible. Uh
the and there's
something about this new environment is
it's dramatically overindexed on new and
fresh.
>> And that's like it doesn't matter if
it's good or quality, is it new? And
Google, I think, has been really like
one of the really bad things that's
happened to Google search is it's so
overindexed to fresh content now. Like
you have to really like put in a bunch
of parameters and understand how to how
to manipulate it to
>> which is unfortunate because the
internet is much shittier today than it
was even 10 years ago.
>> Well, and this is a thing about the
internet generally too. I think one of
the one of the great ironies
is
Twitter
Twitter like got this early. It's about
Twitter is about what's happening right
now. And arguably the greatest mistake
Twitter made was one that literally no
one thought about. So it's not really
like a mistake. It just only if you look
back now, believe it or not, it's been
19 years. Uh you go
>> when when Twitter [laughter]
started
>> it Twitter posts should have dis
disappeared by default uh after a week
or after a month or whatever it might be
a and the you would have
>> if I could pay extra for that feature I
would pay it today. Yeah, it would just
like that's what Twitter is. And in the
long run, particularly after all the
cancellations and all the madness that
sort of we went through over the last
decade, what happened is is that the the
fact that
it was permanent
dramatically hindered and limited
people's willingness to express
themselves in the present,
>> which is a problem because Twitter at
its best is about in the present. It's
about like what's happening right now
and one of the there I can understand
the the push on the algorithm because
it's really hard to get people fresh
content or get when they're just joining
the platform and so an algorithm is
important in that regard. It's super
annoying when something happened right
now and I want to get the reactions
which sort of used to be used to be sort
of one one of the things to it and this
is a this is such a weird paradox of the
internet where the nature of computers
is to record data about everything. This
is why like making
making a payw wall is actually hard cuz
it's like counter to information just
flows at a zero marshall cost go
anywhere. Making stuff sort of temporary
feels impossible because it's getting
written down somewhere, right? Like like
the you know even like some of the most
sort of exotic exploits where you're
like you can listen to the the chip and
like figure out like what's in memory
and what's not. This was this this
pretty famous exploit of of uh like that
happened with with chip sort of a couple
years ago. I have an article I'll put in
the show notes, but
>> it's because stuff had to be put in
memory at some point and then they could
sort of tease out what was there. There
is something about computers that is
inherently sort of permanent and
recording but the nature of how it is
all experienced in the internet is very
temporary and very sort of to the moment
everything that was in the past sort of
doesn't matter and it's immaterial and
that is YouTube overcomes this by being
the platform for all creators. So when
creator one burns out, it doesn't matter
to YouTube. There's 47 creators willing
to sort of fill that space and and sort
of come in there and sort sort sort of
do it. But it does lead to this
inherently from an audience perspective.
It is isolating.
>> Like yes, there's comments and you can
share YouTube videos, but the
individualized nature of the feed and
this applies to social media. It applies
to AI.
>> Yeah.
Why do I not feel threatened by AI?
The reason is because
your AI can generate analysis and maybe
it's better than mine and it's consumed
by one person. You
>> stratey an underrated benefit is that
everyone is reading the exact same
thing. And now I benefit because I'm at
scale. So I am achieving that. There's a
huge question. How do you get to scale?
There's a dramatic narrowing of the
market because everyone can reach
strategy. How much room is there for
other people to sort of break into there
as far I mean theoretically they can but
you're competing with like everyone else
and I'm already there but but the the
this sort of totem type nature of my
content this commonality is I think a
defensibility in the age of AI and I
think that applies to TV. Seinfeld is
Seinfeld. It applies to music. Taylor
Swift is Taylor Swift. Um, by the way,
Taylor Swift's last album, Unfairly
Maligned. It's fine. Are you good in
places?
>> Zag. Okay. I speaking of the new
environment,
>> the accidental critical consensus like
our friend Spike Eskin's theory in
reverse. Everyone decided it was
terrible. Uh, no. It's it's pretty good
actually.
>> You've always been a T-Swift defender.
Um, I have only listened to that album
in 15-second snippets that have been
posted to Instagram, so I can't comment
authoritatively.
>> Well, then you should think it's
awesome. Life of Philly is one of her
all time songs.
>> Enjoy the snippets.
>> It is her greatest movie uh music video
of all time. It's It's phenomenal. It's
so well done.
>> Listen to this fanatic on the other line
here.
>> I'm not a fanatic. No, I'm I'm actually
not hardcore. I didn't actually really
listen to it until this past weekend.
I'm like, what are people talking about?
This is the thing. You always fight the
allegations when I try to turn you into
a t-shirt.
[laughter]
>> The only man in America defending that
new album from her. So effectively here,
what we're saying is Netflix's defense
to YouTube will be selling shared uh
shared experiences, shared entertainment
experiences that YouTube with its
avalanche of userenerated content can't
deliver. Is that the idea? know if it's
sh I don't know if it's a shared
experience per se other than I just and
so this is again this is a fairly fresh
theory to me so I'm still sort of
fleshing it out but there is
it's not inevitable
that user generated content just takes
over everything there is still space for
creating content for professional
content that is more timeless YouTube
has no timelessness
everything on YouTube. How often do you
go back and watch a YouTube video from
10 years ago, much le or or one year ago
or even a week ago, except for like
how-to guides about how to like install
something or fix something, that stuff's
gold, man. Uh, you know, if you want
that in itself justifies YouTube's
existence to the world, but like just
generally
>> leaning into being an old guy. Yeah,
absolutely.
>> Right. And and actually one of the
reasons I like John's content is I think
it is actually quite timeless. You go
back, he has amazing stuff about like
actually an awesome library. Yes.
>> Right. But but it's like how do you
surface that right? There's a bit where
you can go link to it and go to it. The
again I don't know this isn't full but
there is something I what I think
Netflix is identifying is what defense
do we have against this
>> and I think a defense is
this I it it's this sort of content that
is evergreen that is timeless and
Netflix itself to your point
their production of TV which has
happened in this era of user generated
content of social media has been a bit
hamsterlike. In theory, and I always
made this was my cases for Netflix early
on is like, oh, the brilliance of them
creating content is they're increasing
their library. What that does is how do
you get the marginal customer who hasn't
signed up for Netflix yet? Well, every
month that they wait, the value of what
they're getting increases because the
library is increasing over time.
>> The problem is the their content has
been very good at doing that. And
>> well, totally. And I think that is a key
distinction between music and movies and
television. A lot of the newer content
that's been made over the last 10 or 15
years just does not have the same
library value. And that's where certain
tentpole properties that Warner Brothers
has can be really really valuable to
Netflix both for the IP that already
exists and potentially new franchises
that they could build on going forward.
Like
>> well this is the other thing too like
the I I I cited three examples of so the
question for for an acquisition is why
why acquire instead of just making a
deal like that like this is like why
>> right uh well just in general right like
acquisitions entail you have to
integrate it you're going to by
definition overpay often if you want to
make changes to the business you're
going to destroy some value in the
business so why are you paying a premium
like Warner Brothers was valued at like
$30 million or $30 billion like just a
few months ago. Like why are we pay $80
billion for it today? You're going to
have to not like you're basically saying
that not only is this like we're paying
more than what it was worth. We're
paying a huge premium. How why would you
do that when let let them Warner
Brothers is licensing more and more
content like we can just rent shows from
them. Wouldn't that be a better deal?
And that's what I thought for a long
time would be the endgame is Netflix
just is there. They get to license shows
and and sort of that that that sort of
>> and as all these other studios and
streaming platforms die on the vine,
they're negotiating leverage gets much
better as the years pass and they gain
pricing power over all those customers
and it turns into a great business.
That's
>> that's right. And
>> basically a month ago, that's why I was
like, well, the game is over. This is
how it's going to go for Netflix. And I
think that's still like there's a bit
where is Netflix just not being patient
enough like that's going to happen. Can
you just relax for a couple more years
and sort of you'll get there and and
that is why I started with the YouTube
point. It I sense in this a bit of
>> we we can't wait like we we need to sort
of that's why the the start of the
Hollywood endgame like that that is the
endgame. Netflix is the cable bundle.
Everyone subscribes to it. What'd you
pay for the cable rental back in the
day? $80, $100, $100 a year. That's what
you'll pay for Netflix, but you'll get
everything so it's going to be fine or
whatever. $50 or you you have $50 for
Netflix, $50 for ESPN, and you get
everything with that, right? Like that
that was a scenario I sketched out like
over a decade ago, like like we're this
is going to reconsolidate. You're not
going I remember this is a very early
check article. I'm like all because
people were griping about prices and
this is back when stuff was like $56 or
whatever. I'm like,
>> this idea that the future of
entertainment entails people paying less
is not going to happen. [laughter]
You're going to be paying the same
amount. It's just going to be to
different people in different
combinations.
>> Talk about gerting yourself. Get ready
to pay an extra 10 or $15 a month,
everyone out there. Um, that has proven
true.
>> Yeah. And as like people, if you want
this content to exist, you should want
the money flows to actually be similar
if you think about it, right? like like
do you do you think you're going to get
the same stuff if you're paying half as
much for like people want their they
want they don't think through the
economics it's like people would like
shery to be free uh do you want to exist
okay then you're going to pay for it
right
>> you wouldn't be writing if it were free
yes um
>> uh and so so there is an aspect of of
this here for sure but
>> there the three properties I brought up
was F1 uh the drive to survive series
>> the suits the NBC Universal show, it
actually was a Warner Brothers show that
Netflix basically propelled to the top
of the charts in in 2023. And then, of
course, K-pop Demon Hunters. Um,
[laughter] someone did identify my
shadow job as the K-pop Demon Hunters
marketing manager. So, I'm just going to
get back in the saddle again here.
>> Totally. I had a question on here. Is
this the biggest media story of the
decade? The answer is no. K-pop demon
hunters is [laughter] the biggest media
story of the decade here on Sharp Tech.